---
title: Output
description: Explanation of output files generated by LDAK-KVIK
---

# LDAK-KVIK output

Below, we discuss the output files generated by LDAK-KVIK, when using the command lines
```
./ldak6.linux --kvik-step1 kvik --bfile data --pheno phenofile --covar covfile --max-threads 4
./ldak6.linux --kvik-step2 kvik --bfile data --pheno phenofile --covar covfile --max-threads 4
./ldak6.linux --kvik-step3 kvik --bfile data --genefile genefile --max-threads 4
``` 

<a id="step-1"></a>

## Step 1

Step 1 of LDAK-KVIK generates four files: `kvik.step1.progress`, `kvik.step1.root`, `kvik.step1.loco.details` and `kvik.step1.prs`. The `kvik.step1.progress` file contains the screen output of Step 1. The `kvik.step1.root` file contains information on the input arguments, which are used to pass on to the next steps. `kvik.step1.loco.detais` contains information on the scaling estimate, power parameter and heritability estimate, and `kvik.step1.prs` contains the leave-one-chromosome-out predictors constructed using the elastic net.

<a id="step-2"></a>

## Step 2

The second step of LDAK-KVIK performs single-SNP analysis using the PRS of step 1 as offset. The fitted regression coefficients of covariates are included in `kvik.step2.coeff`, and the results of single-SNP analysis are included in `kvik.step2.pvalues`, `kvik.step2.summaries` and `kvik.step2.assoc`. 

The files `kvik.step2.pvalues` and `kvik.step2.summaries` contain information on P values and Z-scores per SNP, and `kvik.step2.assoc` contains the complete summary statistics. An example header of `kvik.step2.assoc` is:

```
Chromosome Predictor Basepair A1 A2 Wald_Stat Wald_P Effect SD A1_mean MAF SPA_Status
1 SNP1 10000 A C -0.4717 6.3715e-01 -6.9038e-03 1.4636e-02 0.241400 0.120700 NOT_USED
1 SNP2 20000 A C 0.0488 9.6105e-01 4.7483e-04 9.7227e-03 0.843100 0.421550 NOT_USED
1 SNP3 30000 A C 1.0593 2.8945e-01 1.0828e-02 1.0222e-02 0.636000 0.318000 NOT_USED
1 SNP4 40000 A C 0.4545 6.4948e-01 5.0009e-03 1.1003e-02 0.502900 0.251450 NOT_USED
1 SNP5 50000 A C -0.5006 6.1664e-01 -5.5770e-03 1.1140e-02 0.475200 0.237600 NOT_USED
...
```
The regression coefficients and standard errors are respectively given in the `Effect` and `SD` columns. `Wald_Stat` contains the Z-scores, and `Wald_P` contains the associated P values. `SPA_Status` indicates whether the [saddlepoint approximation](/docs/assoc/spa) has been applied.

<a id="step-3"></a>

## Step 3

The third step of LDAK-KVIK generates results from gene-based association analysis.